BinaryFormatter Migration Guide (#41564)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/serialization/binaryformatter-migration-guide/index.md

For more details about the decision, see the [BinaryFormatter is being removed in .NET 9](https://github.com/dotnet/announcements/issues/293) announcement. If you want to share feedback, leave a comment in [the discussion issue](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/98245).

## Migration topics

### Choose a serializer

The first step of migrating from `BinaryFormatter` is to [choose a serializer](./choose-a-serializer.md) to use in its place. Depending on your specific needs, the .NET team recommends migrations to four different serializers.

* [Migrate to System.Text.Json](./migrate-to-system-text-json.md)
* [Migrate to DataContractSerializer](./migrate-to-datacontractserializer.md)
* [Migrate to MessagePack](./migrate-to-messagepack.md)
* [Migrate to protobuf-net](./migrate-to-protobuf-net.md)

### Read BinaryFormatter (NRBF) payloads

Many applications load and deserialize payloads that have been persisted to storage and it's not always possible to transform all persisted payloads upfront. Other scenarios may involve systems or services that receive data produced by BinaryFormatter, where these systems need to be migrated independently.

> In these scenarios and others, it becomes necessary to retain support for reading the supplied payloads and transition to a new format over time. To meet these needs, it is now possible to securely [read NRBF payloads](./read-nrbf-payloads.md) created with `BinaryFormatter` without performing general-purpose and vulnerable deserialization.

Author: It sounds much better now, thank you for rewording it! 👍

---
title: "BinaryFormatter migration guide"
description: "This guide covers the deprecation and removal of BinaryFormatter from .NET and recommends migration paths."
ms.date: 5/31/2024
no-loc: [BinaryFormatter, Serialization]
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "BinaryFormatter"
  - "serializing objects"
  - "serialization"
  - "objects, serializing"
---

# BinaryFormatter migration guide

> [!CAUTION]
> We strongly recommend against using BinaryFormatter due to the [associated security risks](#whats-the-risk-in-using-binaryformatter). Existing users [should migrate away from BinaryFormatter](#migration-topics).

> Starting with .NET 9, we no longer ship an implementation of BinaryFormatter. The APIs are still present, but their implementation always throws an exception, regardless of project type. Hence, setting the existing backwards compatibility flag is no longer sufficient to use BinaryFormatter.

Reviewer: I tried to describe what the in-box situation is. This now reads a bit strange because in conjunction with the next sentence it says the "the unsupported implementation always throws". The implementation we ship in-box is argubaly supported (since it always throws) -- what's unsupported is the OOB implementation which still functions :-)

```suggestion
Starting with .NET 9, we no longer include an implementation of BinaryFormatter in the runtime. The APIs are still present, but their implementation always throws an exception, regardless of project type. Hence, setting the existing backwards compatibility flag is no longer sufficient to use BinaryFormatter.
```
